chore: doc interpreter (#607)
ipvm-wg/homestar: homestar-wasm/README.md

  When a WIT function expects a float input, an `Ipld::Float` value is
  mapped to a float WIT runtime value. Casting is done to convert from `f32` to
  `f64` if necessary.

  **Example**: Consider a WIT function defined as follows:

  ```wit
  export fn: func(a: f64) -> f64;
  ```

  Given an JSON input for this function:

  ```json
  {
    "args": [1.0]
  }
  ```

  `1.0` is converted into an `Ipld::Float`, which is then translated and
  passed into `fn` as a float argument (`f64`).

- **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

  Conversely, when a `float32` or `float64` value is returned from a WIT
  function, it can be translated back into an `Ipld::Float`.

  **Note**: In converting from `float32` to `float64`, the latter of which is
  the default precision for [IPLD][ipld-float], precision will be lost.
  **The interpreter will use decimal precision in this conversion**.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

```ipldsch
type IPLDFloatAsWit union {
  | Float32 float
  | Float64 float
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldFloat union {
  | Float32 float
  | Float64 float
} representation kinded
```

#### Strings

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD string values

> (`Ipld::String`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::String` value can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::String`) and various [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::String` value can be
```
Possible change, "various" seems better to me here. (Same applies to repeated instances below.)

    mapped to a `list<u8>` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: list<u8>) -> list<u8>;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [{"/": {"bytes": "aGVsbDA"}}]
    }
    ```

    `"aGVsbDA"` is converted into an `Ipld::Bytes`, which is then translated
    into bytes and passed into `fn` as a `list<u8>` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    Conversely, when a `list<u8>` value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated back into an `Ipld::Bytes` value if the list contains valid
    `u8` values.

- `string`

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `string` input, an `Ipld::Bytes` value is
    mapped to a `string` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: string) -> string;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [{"/": {"bytes": "aGVsbDA"}}]
    }
    ```

    `"aGVsbDA"` is converted into an `Ipld::Bytes`, which is then translated
    into a `string` and passed into `fn` as a `string` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

>     **Here, when a string value is returned from a WIT function, it is
>     translated into an `Ipld::String` value, as we can't determine if
>     it's related to `bytes` once again**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Here, when a string value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated into an `Ipld::String` value, because we can't determine if it
    was originally `bytes`**.
```
Possible rephrasing.

(`Ipld::Null`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Null` value
can be interpreted either as a `string` or `option`.

**We'll cover only the `string` case here** and return to the `option` case
below.

* **IPLD to WIT Translation**

  When a WIT function expects a `string` input, an `Ipld::Null` value is
  mapped as a `"null"` `string` WIT runtime value.

  **Example**:

  ```wit
  export fn: func(a: string) -> string;
  ```

  Given an JSON input for this function:

  ```json
  {
    "args": [null]
  }
  ```

  `null` is converted into an `Ipld::Null`, which is then translated and
  passed into `fn` as a `string` argument with the value of `"null"`.

* **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

  Conversely, when a `string` value of `"null"` is returned from a WIT function,
  it can be translated into an `Ipld::Null` value.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type None unit representation null

type IPLDNullAsWit union {
  | None
  | String string
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldNull union {
  | None
  | String string
} representation kinded
```

#### Links

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD link values

> (`Ipld::Link`) and [WIT `string` runtime values]. A `Ipld::Link` is always

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::Link`) and [WIT `string` runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Link` is always
```

  any other IPLD value if it's the `Some` case.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type IpldAsWitOption union {
  | Some any
  | None
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldOption union {
  | Some any
  | None
} representation kinded
```

#### WIT Results

This section outlines the translation process between [WIT result runtime values][wit-val]
(of type `result`) and varying IPLD values. We treat result as Left/Right
[either][either] types over an `Ipld::List` of 2 elements.

A [`result`][wit-result] can be interpreted as one of these patterns:

- `Ok` (with a payload)

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `result` as input, an `Ipld::List` value can
    be mapped to the `Ok` case of the `result` WIT runtime value, including
    a payload.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: result<s32, string>) -> result<s32, string>;
    ```

   Given an JSON input for this function:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [[47, null]]
      }
      ```

      `[47, null]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is then translated
      and passed into `fn` as an `Ok` case of the `result` argument with a

>       payload of `47` matching the `s32` type on the left.

Reviewer: Something is off with the formatting here. Don't see what it is immediately, but this all ends up in a code block together.

Author: will check

Author: Seems resolved now @bgins. Lmk.

    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [[null, "error message"]]
      }
      ```

      `[null, "error message"]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is
      then translated and passed into `fn` as an `Err` case of the `result`
      argument with a payload of `"error message"` matching the `string` type
      on the right.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

      Conversely, when a `result` value is returned from a WIT function, it can
      be translated back into an `Ipld::List` of this specific structure.

- `Ok` case (without a payload)

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: result<_, string>) -> result<_, string>;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [[47, null]]
      }
      ```

      `[47, null]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is then translated
      and passed into `fn` as an `Ok` case of the `result` argument. The payload
      is ignored as it's not needed (expressed in the type as `_` above), so
      `47` is not used.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

>     **Here, when this specific `Ok` case is returned from a WIT function, it can
>     be translated back into an `Ipld::List`, but one structured as
>     `[1, null]` internally, which signifies the `Ok` (not error) case, but
>     discards the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Here, when this specific `Ok` case is returned from a WIT function, it can
    be translated back into an `Ipld::List`, but one structured as
    `[1, null]` internally, which signifies the `Ok` (not error) case, with
    the `1` payload discarded.**
```

- `Err` case (without a payload)

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: result<s32, _>) -> result<s32, _>;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [[null, "error message"]]
      }
      ```

      `[null, "error message"]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is
      then translated and passed into `fn` as an `Err` case of the `result`
      argument. The payload is ignored as it's not needed (expressed in the type
      as `_` above), so `"error message"` is not used.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

>     **Here, when this specific `Err` case is returned from a WIT function, it
>     can be translated back into an `Ipld::List`, but one structured as
>     `[null, "error message"]` internally, which signifies the `Err` (error)
>     case, but discards the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Here, when this specific `Err` case is returned from a WIT function, it
    can be translated back into an `Ipld::List`, but one structured as
    `[null, 1]` internally, which signifies the `Err` (error) case, with
    the `1` payload discarded.**
```
Can't remember for sure, but I think we also use `1` as a placeholder payload here too.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type Null unit representation null

type IpldAsWitResult union {
  | Ok [any, Null]
  | Err [Null, any]
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldResult union {
  | Ok [any, Null]
  | OkNone [1, Null]
  | Err [Null, any]
  | ErrNone [Null, 1]
} representation kinded
```

**Note**: `any` is used here to represent any type that's not `Null`. So,
given an input with a `result` type, the JSON value of

```json
{
  "args": [null, null]
}
```

> would fail to be translated into a Wit `result`runtime value, as it's ambiguous
> to which case it should be mapped to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
would fail to be translated into a Wit `result`runtime value, as it's ambiguous
which case it should be mapped to.
```

[cidv0]: https://github.com/multiformats/cid?tab=readme-ov-file#cidv0
[cidv1]: https://github.com/multiformats/cid?tab=readme-ov-file#cidv1

> [either]: https://www.scala-lang.org/api/2.13.6/scala/util/Either.html

Reviewer: Scala huh? Haskell feels slighted. 😛

[ipld]: https://ipld.io/
[ipld-data-model]: https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/
[ipld-float]: https://ipld.io/design/tricky-choices/numeric-domain/#floating-point
[ipld-type]: https://docs.rs/libipld/latest/libipld/ipld/enum.Ipld.html
[wasmtime]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime
[wit]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/WIT.md
[wit-builtin]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#built-in-types
[wit-enum]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#enums
[wit-flags]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#flags
[wit-integer]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#built-in-types
[wit-list]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#lists
[wit-option]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#options
[wit-record]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#records
[wit-result]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#results
[wit-tuple]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#tuples
[wit-val]: https://docs.wasmtime.dev/api/wasmtime/component/enum.Val.html

> [wit-varaint]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#variants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[wit-variant]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#variants
```

##

## Outline

- [Description](#description)
- [Interpreting between IPLD and WIT](#interpreting-between-ipld-and-wit)

## Description

This *wasm* library manages the [wasmtime][wasmtime] runtime, provides the
[IPLD][ipld] to/from Wasm Interace Types ([WIT][wit])
interpreter/translation-layer, and implements the input interface for working
with Ipvm's standard Wasm tasks.

For more information, please go to our [Homestar Readme][homestar-readme].

## Interpreting between IPLD and WIT

Our recursive interpreter is able to bidirectionally translate between
the runtime [IPLD data model][ipld-data-model] and [WIT][wit] values, based on
known [WIT][wit] interface types.

### Primitive Types

> We'll start by covering WIT [primitive types][wit-builtin].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll start by covering WIT [primitive types][wit-primitive].
```
Slightly more direct link available. See below.

    When a WIT function expects a `list<u8>` input, an `Ipld::String` value is
    mapped to a `list<u8>` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: list<u8>) -> list<u8>;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": ["aGVsbDA"]
    }
    ```

    `"aGVsbDA"` is converted into an `Ipld::String`, which is then translated
    into bytes and passed into `fn` as a `list<u8>` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    **Here, when a `list<u8>` value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated into an `Ipld::Bytes` value, which is the proper type**.

- [`enum`][wit-enum]:

  An enum statement defines a new type which is semantically equivalent to a
  variant where none of the cases have a payload type.

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects an `enum` input, an `Ipld::String` value is
    mapped to a `enum` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    enum color {
        Red,
        Green,
        Blue
    }

    export fn: func(a: color) -> string;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": ["Green"]
    }
    ```

>     `"Green"` is converted into an `Ipld::String`, which is then translated and
>     passed into `fn` as a enum argument (`color`). **You'll have to provide a
>     singular string that matches on one of the discriminants**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `"Green"` is converted into an `Ipld::String`, which is then translated and
    passed into `fn` as a enum argument (`color`). **You'll have to provide a
    string that matches on one of the discriminants**.
```
Not quite sure what singular adds here. Might be able to drop it.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    Conversely, when an enum value is returned from a WIT function, it can be
    translated back into an `Ipld::String` value.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type Enum enum {
  | Red
  | Green
  | Blue
}

type IPLDStringAsWit union {
 | Enum     Enum
 | String   string
 | Char     string
 | Listu8In string
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldString union {
 | Enum      Enum
 | String    string
 | Char      string
 | Listu8Out bytes
} representation kinded
```

#### Bytes

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD bytes values

> (`Ipld::Bytes`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Bytes` value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::Bytes`) and various [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Bytes` value
```

can be interpreted either as a `list<u8>` or `string`.

- [`list`][wit-list]:

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `list<u8>` input, an `Ipld::Bytes` value is
    mapped to a `list<u8>` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: list<u8>) -> list<u8>;
    ```

>     Given an JSON input for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Given a JSON input for this function:
```

    translated back into an `Ipld::Bytes` value if the list contains valid
    `u8` values.

- `string`

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `string` input, an `Ipld::Bytes` value is
    mapped to a `string` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: string) -> string;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [{"/": {"bytes": "aGVsbDA"}}]
    }
    ```

    `"aGVsbDA"` is converted into an `Ipld::Bytes`, which is then translated
    into a `string` and passed into `fn` as a `string` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    **Here, when a string value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated into an `Ipld::String` value, because we can't determine if it
    was originally `bytes`**.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type IPLDBytesAsWit union {
  | ListU8   bytes
  | StringIn bytes
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldBytes union {
  | ListU8    bytes
  | StringOut string
} representation kinded
```

#### Nulls

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD null values

> (`Ipld::Null`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Null` value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::Null`) and various [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Null` value
```

interpreted as a `string` in WIT, and vice versa.

* **IPLD to WIT Translation**

  When a WIT function expects a `string` input, an `Ipld::Link` value is
  mapped to a `string` WIT runtime value, translated accordingly based
  on the link being [Cidv0][cidv0] or [Cidv1][cidv1].

  **Example**:

  ```wit
  export fn: func(a: string) -> string;
  ```

  Given an JSON input for this function:

  ```json
  {
    "args": ["bafybeia32q3oy6u47x624rmsmgrrlpn7ulruissmz5z2ap6alv7goe7h3q"]
  }
  ```

  `"bafybeia32q3oy6u47x624rmsmgrrlpn7ulruissmz5z2ap6alv7goe7h3q"` is converted
  into an `Ipld::Link`, which is then translated and passed into `fn` as a
  `string` argument.

* **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

  Conversely, when a `string` value is returned from a WIT function, and if it
  can be converted to a Cid, it can then be translated into an `Ipld::Link`
  value.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type IPLDLinkAsWit &String link

type WitAsIpldLink &String link
```

### Non-primitive Types

Next, we'll cover the more interesting, WIT non-primitive types.

#### List Values

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD list values

> (`Ipld::List`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::List`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::List`) and various [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::List`
```

    translated back into an `Ipld::List` value.

- [`tuple`][wit-tuple]:

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `tuple` input, an `Ipld::List` value is
    mapped to a `tuple` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    type ipv6-socket-address = tuple<u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16>;

    export fn: func(a: ipv6-socket-address) -> tuple<u32, u32>;
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [[8193, 3512, 34211, 0, 0, 35374, 880, 29492]]
    }
    ```

    `[8193, 3512, 34211, 0, 0, 35374, 880, 29492]` is converted into an
    `Ipld::List`, which is then translated and passed into `fn` as a
    `tuple<u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16, u16>` argument.

    **If the length of list does not match not match the number of fields in the
    tuple interface type, then an error will be thrown in the interpreter.**

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    Conversely, when a `tuple` value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated back into an `Ipld::List` value.

- [`flags`][wit-flags]:

  `flags` represent a bitset structure with a name for each bit. The type

>   represents a set of named booleans. In an instance of the type, each flag will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  represents a set of named booleans. In an instance of the named type, each flag will
```
Might help to reinforce the concept.

  be either true or false.

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `flags` input, an `Ipld::List` value is
    mapped to a `flags` WIT runtime value.

    When used as an input, you can set the flags you want turned on/true as an
    inclusive subset of strings. When used as an output, you will get a list of
    strings representing the flags that are set to true.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    flags permissions {
        read,
        write,
        exec,
    }

    export fn: func(perm: permissions) -> bool;
    ```

>     Given an JSON input for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Given a JSON input for this function:
```

    ```json
    {
      "args": [["read", "write"]]
    }
    ```

    `[read, write]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is then translated
    and passed into `fn` as a `permissions` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    Conversely, when a `flags` value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated back into an `Ipld::List` value.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type IPLDListAsWit union {
  | List [any]
  | Tuple [any]
  | Flags [string]
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldList union {
  | List [any]
  | Tuple [any]
  | Flags [string]
} representation kinded
```

#### Maps

This section outlines the translation process between IPLD map values

> (`Ipld::Map`) and varying [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Map`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`Ipld::Map`) and various [WIT runtime values][wit-val]. A `Ipld::Map`
```

value can be interpreted as one of a `record`, `variant`, or

> a `list` of 2-element `tuples`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a `list` of two-element `tuples`.
```
Somewhat of a stylistic choice, but numbers less that ten are usually written out.

- [`record`][wit-record]:

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `record` input, an `Ipld::Map` value is
    mapped to a `record` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    record pair {
        x: u32,
        y: u32,
    }

    export fn: func(a: pair) -> u32;
    ```

>     Given an JSON input for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Given a JSON input for this function:
```

  with it). Variants can be thought of as tagged unions as well.

  Each case of a variant can have an optional type / payload associated with it
  which is present when values have that particular case's tag.

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `variant` input, an `Ipld::Map` value is
    mapped to a `variant` WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit

    variant filter {
        all,
        none,
        some(list<string>),
    }

    export fn: func(a: filter);
    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [{"some" : ["a", "b", "c"]}]
    }
    ```

    `{"some" : ["a", "b", "c"]}` is converted into an `Ipld::Map`, which is
    then translated and passed into `fn` as a `filter` argument, where the key
    is the variant name and the value is the payload.

    **The keys in the map must match the variant names in the variant type**.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    Conversely, when a `variant` value is returned from a WIT function, it is
    translated back into an `Ipld::Map` value where the tag is the key and
    payload is the value.

- [`list`][wit-list]:

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

>     When a WIT function expects a nested `list` of 2-element `tuples` as input,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When a WIT function expects a nested `list` of two-element `tuples` as input,
```
Same as above, but a stylistic choice.

    an `Ipld::Map` value is mapped to that specific WIT runtime value.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: list<tuple<string, u32>>) -> list<u32>;
    ```

>     Given an JSON input for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Given a JSON input for this function:
```

    ```json
    {
      "args": [{"a": 1, "b": 2}]
    }
    ```

    `{"a": 1, "b": 2}` is converted into an `Ipld::Map`, which is then
    translated and passed into `fn` as a `list<tuple<string, u32>>` argument.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

>     Conversely, when a `list` of 2-element `tuples` is returned from a WIT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Conversely, when a `list` of two-element `tuples` is returned from a WIT
```
Same as above.

    function, it can be translated back into an `Ipld::Map` value.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type TupleAsMap {string:any} representation listpairs

type IPLDMapAsWit union {
  | Record {string:any}
  | Variant {string:any}
  | List TupleAsMap
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldMap union {
  | Record {string:any}
  | Variant {string:any}
  | List TupleAsMap
} representation kinded
```

#### WIT Options

This section outlines the translation process between [WIT option runtime values][wit-val]

> (of type `option`) and varying IPLD values. An [`option`][wit-option] can be interpreted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(of type `option`) and various IPLD values. An [`option`][wit-option] can be interpreted
```

  ```

  * `Some` case:

    - **Json Input**:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [1]
      }
      ```

  * `None` case:

    - **Json Input**:

      ```json
      {
        "args": [null]
      }
      ```

  `1` is converted into an `Ipld::Integer`, which is then translated and
  passed into `fn` as an integer argument (`s32`), as the `Some` case of the
  option.

  `null` is converted into an `Ipld::Null`, which is then translated and
  passed into `fn` as a `None`/`Unit` case of the option (i.e. no value in WIT).

  Essentially, you can view this as `Ipld::Any` being the `Some` case and
  `Ipld::Null` being the `None` case.

* **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

  Conversely, when an `option` value is returned from a WIT function, it can be
  translated back into an `Ipld::Null` value if it's the `None`/`Unit` case, or
  any other IPLD value if it's the `Some` case.

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type IpldAsWitOption union {
  | Some any
  | None
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldOption union {
  | Some any
  | None
} representation kinded
```

#### WIT Results

This section outlines the translation process between [WIT result runtime values][wit-val]

> (of type `result`) and varying IPLD values. We treat result as Left/Right

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(of type `result`) and various IPLD values. We treat result as Left/Right
```

> [either][either] types over an `Ipld::List` of 2 elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[either][either] types over an `Ipld::List` of two elements.
```
Same as above.

A [`result`][wit-result] can be interpreted as one of these patterns:

- `Ok` (with a payload)

  * **IPLD to WIT Translation**

    When a WIT function expects a `result` as input, an `Ipld::List` value can
    be mapped to the `Ok` case of the `result` WIT runtime value, including
    a payload.

    **Example**:

    ```wit
    export fn: func(a: result<s32, string>) -> result<s32, string>;
    ```

>     Given an JSON input for this function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Given a JSON input for this function:
```

    ```

    Given an JSON input for this function:

    ```json
    {
      "args": [[null, "error message"]]
    }
    ```

    `[null, "error message"]` is converted into an `Ipld::List`, which is
    then translated and passed into `fn` as an `Err` case of the `result`
    argument. The payload is ignored as it's not needed (expressed in the type
    as `_` above), so `"error message"` is not used.

  * **WIT to IPLD Translation**:

    **Here, when this specific `Err` case is returned from a WIT function, it
    can be translated back into an `Ipld::List`, but one structured as
    `[null, 1]` internally, which signifies the `Err` (error) case, with
    the `1` payload discarded.**

**IPLD Schema Definitions**:

``` ipldsch
type Null unit representation null

type IpldAsWitResult union {
  | Ok [any, Null]
  | Err [Null, any]
} representation kinded

type WitAsIpldResult union {
  | Ok [any, Null]
  | OkNone [1, Null]
  | Err [Null, any]
  | ErrNone [Null, 1]
} representation kinded
```

**Note**: `any` is used here to represent any type that's not `Null`. So,
given an input with a `result` type, the JSON value of

```json
{
  "args": [null, null]
}
```

> would fail to be translated into a Wit `result`runtime value, as it's ambiguous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will fail to be translated into a Wit `result`runtime value, as it's ambiguous
```

which case it should be mapped to.

[cidv0]: https://github.com/multiformats/cid?tab=readme-ov-file#cidv0
[cidv1]: https://github.com/multiformats/cid?tab=readme-ov-file#cidv1
[either]: https://www.scala-lang.org/api/2.13.6/scala/util/Either.html
[homestar-readme]: https://github.com/ipvm-wg/homestar/blob/main/README.md
[ipld]: https://ipld.io/
[ipld-data-model]: https://ipld.io/docs/data-model/
[ipld-float]: https://ipld.io/design/tricky-choices/numeric-domain/#floating-point
[ipld-type]: https://docs.rs/libipld/latest/libipld/ipld/enum.Ipld.html
[wasmtime]: https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wasmtime
[wit]: https://github.com/WebAssembly/component-model/blob/main/design/mvp/WIT.md

> [wit-builtin]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#built-in-types

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[wit-primitive]: https://component-model.bytecodealliance.org/design/wit.html#primitive-types
```
